# Message Queues

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **What does it mean that web sockets are bidirectional? Why is this useful?**

bidirectional means that can exchange without requiring the client to submit a request each time,  this allows devices to send and receive continuous streams of data to and from any point on the network.

* **Does socket.io use HTTP? Why?**

yes because a socket.io server will attach to an HTTP server so it can serve its own client code through /socket.io/socket.io.js 

* **What happens when a client emits an event?**

The event gets passed to the server through websockets. Its a tcp connection from the browser to the server. The connection is full duplex meaning the server can send real time data to the client and vise versa.

* **How can we mitigate this?**

 using message queueing

 ## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

 * **Socket:** is one endpoint of a two-way communication link between two programs running on the network. A socket is bound to a port number so that the TCP layer can identify the application that data is destined to be sent to.

 * **WebSocket:** is a communications protocol for a persistent, bi-directional, full duplex TCP connection from a user’s web browser to a server.

 * **Socket.IO:** is a library that enables real-time, bidirectional and event-based communication between the browser and the server.

 * **client:** is a piece of computer hardware or software that accesses a service made available by a server as part of the client–server model of computer networks.

 * **server:** is a piece of computer hardware or software (computer program) that provides functionality for other programs or devices, called "clients".

 * **Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model):** is a conceptual model that characterises and standardises the communication functions of a telecommunication or computing system without regard to its underlying internal structure and technology. 


* **Transmission Control Protocol (TCP):** is one of the main protocols of the Internet protocol suite. It originated in the initial network implementation in which it complemented the Internet Protocol (IP). Therefore, the entire suite is commonly referred to as TCP/IP. 


* **User datagram protocol (UDP):** connectionless protocol so there is no need to establish a connection prior to data transfer.

* **Packets:** formatted unit of data carried by a packet-switched network, packet consists of control information and user data/payload

## Preparation Materials

### Rooms

* **Implementation details**
The “room” feature is implemented by what we call an Adapter. This Adapter is a server-side component which is responsible for:

* storing the relationships between the Socket instances and the rooms
* broadcasting events to all (or a subset of) clients

* **Room events**
Starting with socket.io@3.1.0, the underlying Adapter will emit the following events:

1. create-room (argument: room)
1. delete-room (argument: room)
1. join-room (argument: room, id)
1. leave-room (argument: room, id)



