# Context API

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **Describe use cases for `useMemo()` and `useReducer()`**

`useReducer()` is useful when you need to use complex state logic, when you have multiple sub values, or when the next state depends on the previous state.  Use `useMemo()` runs during rendering, and it will only recompute the memoized value when one of its dependant has changed. This is an optimized way to avoid calculations every re-render.  
  
* **Why do custom hooks need the use prefix?**

It needs the prefix so that looking at it, you can immediately tell that it is a hook. Without this, it looks just like a regular function.  

* **What do custom hooks usually do?**

They give functionality that can be used across multiple components, and they are better than functions because they can access state and component lifecycle.  
  
* **Using any list of custom hooks, research and name one that you think will be useful in your applications**   

react-use-form-state is a hook that helps maintain the state in different parts of an app. This could be really useful, as this has been a challenge in the ToDo app.  

* **Describe how a hook that fetches API data might work**

An API fetching hook would take in a url and any info necessary for the request and return the results of the API call. It could use a callback to update the state with the returned results. 

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **reducer:** This is a function that determines the changes to an application's state, using the action that it receives.

## Preparation Materials

### **Context**

Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.


* ***When to Use Context***

Context is designed to share data that can be considered “global” for a tree of React components, such as the current authenticated user, theme, or preferred language. For example, in the code below we manually thread through a “theme” prop in order to style the Button component.

* ***Before You Use Context***

Context is primarily used when some data needs to be accessible by many components at different nesting levels. Apply it sparingly because it makes component reuse more difficult.

If you only want to avoid passing some props through many levels, component composition is often a simpler solution than context.

* **Context.Consumer:** A React component that subscribes to context changes. Using this component lets you subscribe to a context within a function component.

* **Context.displayName:** Context object accepts a displayName string property. React DevTools uses this string to determine what to display for the context.

