## Name 3 advantages to Test Driven Development
1. Better program design and higher code quality
2. Detailed project documentation
3. TDD reduces the time required for project development

## In what case would you need to use beforeEach() or afterEach() in a test suite?

* beforeEach and afterEach can handle asynchronous code in the same ways that tests can handle asynchronous code - they can either take a done parameter or return a promise.

## What is one downside of Test Driven Development

* Tests got to be maintained when requirements change 

## What’s the primary difference between ES6 Classes and Constructor/Prototype Classes?

The most important difference between class- and prototype-based inheritance is that a class defines a type which can be instantiated at runtime, whereas a prototype is itself an object instance.

## Why REST?

Due to its scalability, its flexibility and portability and its independence.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **Functional programming**: Functional programming (often abbreviated FP) is the process of building software by composing pure functions, avoiding shared state, mutable data, and side-effects. Functional programming is declarative rather than imperative, and application state flows through pure functions.

* **object-oriented programming (OOP)**: Object-oriented programming is a programming paradigm based on the concept of “objects”, which can contain data and code: data in the form of fields, and code, in the form of procedures.

* **Class** is like a blueprint of objects that you want to create.

* **super**: this is used to call the constructor of the super (parent) class

* **this**: this refers to the current object being instantiated

* **Test-driven development (TDD)** is a software development process relying on software requirements being converted to test cases before software is fully developed, and tracking all software development by repeatedly testing the software against all test cases. 

* **Jest**: Jest is a JavaScript testing framework maintained by Facebook, Inc. designed and built by Christoph Nakazawa with a focus on simplicity and support for large web applications. It works with projects using Babel, TypeScript, Node.js, React, Angular, Vue.js and Svelte. Jest does not require a lot of configuration for first time users of a testing framework.

*  **continuous integration (CI)** is the practice of merging all developers' working copies to a shared mainline several times a day.

* **REST**: Representational state transfer (REST) is a software architectural style which uses a subset of HTTP. It is commonly used to create interactive applications that use Web services. A Web service that follows these guidelines is called RESTful.

* **data model** is an abstract model that organizes elements of data and standardizes how they relate to one another and to the properties of real-world entities. For instance, a data model may specify that the data element representing a car be composed of a number of other elements which, in turn, represent the color and size of the car and define its owner.



