# Hooks API

## Review, Research, and Discussion



**Why do we not need more .html pages in a multi-page React app?**   
With React, we can re-render separate parts of the page when we need to render them, so it appears that we are going to different pages, and the route changes, but it is just rendering different things on the same html page based on the current state.     
**If we wanted a component to show up on every page, where would we put it and why?**
 -  Outside the `<BrowserRouter/>` 
 - **Inside the `<BrowserRouter />`, outside a `<Route />`**
 -  Inside a `<Route />` 

**What does props.children contain?**

`props.children` contains data passed in from the parent component that can be used in the child component. 

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **Composition:** This is where a more specific component renders a more generic component configured with props.

* **Children/child components:** Children components are given props from the parent component, and are rendered partially based on where they are in the parent component.

* **Hash Routing:**  A router that uses client side hash routing. It does not need any configuration in the server to handle routes, but it is mainly recommended when you need to support legacy browsers

* **Link Routing:** With link routing, you navigate a site by being directed to different paths, and this is done in React with react-router-dom

## Preparation Materials


* **Do Hooks Make React Bloated?**

If the React community embraces the Hooks proposal, it will reduce the number of concepts you need to juggle when writing React applications. Hooks let you always use functions instead of having to constantly switch between functions, classes, higher-order components, and render props. In terms of the implementation size, the Hooks support increases React only by ~1.5kB . Your existing code would keep on working even if you adopted Hooks in the newly written components.

Still, we’d appreciate if you could experiment with the 16.7 alpha to provide us with feedback on the Hooks proposal and report any bugs.

Today, there are a lot of ways to reuse logic in React apps. We can write simple functions and call them to calculate something. We can also write components . Components are more powerful, but they have to render some UI.

This makes them inconvenient for sharing non-visual logic. This is how we end up with complex patterns like render props and higher-order components. Functions seem to be a perfect mechanism for code reuse. Moving logic between functions takes the least amount of effort.

However, functions can’t have local React state inside them. You can’t extract behavior like «watch window size and update the state» or «animate a value over time» from a class component without restructuring your code or introducing an abstraction like Observables. Note that custom Hooks are not technically a React feature.

* **Show Me Some Code!**

They involve writing a class, setting up some lifecycle methods, or maybe even extracting a render prop or a higher-order component if you want to reuse it between components. We use the window width in our component, and React re-renders our component if it changes. Let’s look at how we could implement this custom Hook. We can use them from our components directly, or we can combine them into custom Hooks like useWindowWidth.

Using custom Hooks feels as idiomatic as using React’s built-in API. Each Hook may contain some local state and side effects. You can pass data between multiple Hooks just like you normally do between functions. They can take arguments and return values because they are JavaScript functions.

* **So What About Classes?**

Custom Hooks are, in our opinion, the most appealing part of the Hooks proposal. But in order for custom Hooks to work, React needs to provide functions with a way to declare state and side effects. At Facebook we have tens of thousands of class components and, like you, we have no intention of rewriting them. But if the React community embraces Hooks, it doesn’t make sense to have two different recommended ways to write components.

* **But Aren’t Hooks Magic?**

This design is crucial to enabling custom Hooks without introducing extra syntactic noise or other pitfalls. We recognize the initial unfamiliarity but we think this tradeoff is worth the features it enables. Note that there is no «magic» in the implementation of Hooks either. Thanks to the Rules of Hooks, their order is the same on every render, so we can provide the component with correct state for each call.

React has an internal update queue which is the source of truth for any state, no matter how you define your components. Hooks don’t rely on Proxies or getters which can be common in modern JavaScript libraries. So arguably Hooks are less magic than some popular approaches to similar problems. I’d say Hooks are about as much magic as calling array.

In fact, during the first few days after the proposal was published, different people came up with experimental implementations of the same Hooks API for Vue, Web Components, and even plain JavaScript functions. Finally, if you’re a functional programming purist and feel uneasy about React relying on mutable state as an implementation detail, you might find it satisfactory that handling Hooks could be implemented in a pure way using algebraic effects .

* **Spread Love, Not Hype**

If you create any content about Hooks while they’re unstable, please mention prominently that they are an experimental proposal, and include a link to the official documentation. We’ll keep it up to date with any changes to the proposal. We’ve also spent quite a bit of effort to make it comprehensive, so many questions are already answered there. If you see a misconception, you can share extra information if the other person is open to it.

But any change is scary, and as a community we should try our best to help people instead of alienating them.


* **Motivation**

Hooks solve a wide variety of seemingly unconnected problems in React that we’ve encountered over five years of writing and maintaining tens of thousands of components.

It’s hard to reuse stateful logic between components

If you look at a typical React application in React DevTools, you will likely find a «wrapper hell» of components surrounded by layers of providers, consumers, higher-order components, render props, and other abstractions. With Hooks, you can extract stateful logic from a component so it can be tested independently and reused. Hooks allow you to reuse stateful logic without changing your component hierarchy. This makes it easy to share Hooks among many components or with the community.

* **Complex components become hard to understand**

We’ve often had to maintain components that started out simple but grew into an unmanageable mess of stateful logic and side effects. Each lifecycle method often contains a mix of unrelated logic. For example, components might perform some data fetching in componentDidMount and componentDidUpdate. However, the same componentDidMount method might also contain some unrelated logic that sets up event listeners, with cleanup performed in componentWillUnmount.

In many cases it’s not possible to break these components into smaller ones because the stateful logic is all over the place.

* **Classes confuse both people and machines**

In addition to making code reuse and code organization more difficult, we’ve found that classes can be a large barrier to learning React. The distinction between function and class components in React and when to use each one leads to disagreements even between experienced React developers. As Svelte, Angular, Glimmer, and others show, ahead-of-time compilation of components has a lot of future potential. Recently, we’ve been experimenting with component folding using Prepack, and we’ve seen promising early results.

However, we found that class components can encourage unintentional patterns that make these optimizations fall back to a slower path. To solve these problems, Hooks let you use more of React’s features without classes. Conceptually, React components have always been closer to functions. Hooks embrace functions, but without sacrificing the practical spirit of React.
