
# Review, Research, and Discussion

### What is the benefit of transforming data into packets?

Splitting the data into packets means the data transmission is not as dependent on the availability of the networks on the path. Once the data is received a confirmation message is returned to the sender, and the packets are reordered and the data is retrieved.

### UDP is often refereed to as a connectionless protocol. Why is this?

 because no connection needs to be established between the source and destination before you transmit data. 

 ### Can a socket server application have multiple socket connections?

No, it can't be.

### Can a socket connection application be connected to multiple socket servers?

Yes, it can be

### Can an application be both a socket server and a socket connection?

Yes.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms


* **Observer Pattern:** is a software design pattern in which an object, named the subject, maintains a list of its dependents, called observers, and notifies them automatically of any state changes, usually by calling one of their methods.

* **Listener:** is programmed to react to an input or signal by calling the event's handler. The term event listener is often specific to Java and JavaScript.

* **event handler:** is a callback routine that operates asynchronously and handles inputs received into a program (events).

* **Event Driven Programming:** igm in which the flow of the program is determined by events such as user actions (mouse clicks, key presses), sensor outputs, or message passing from other programs or threads.

* **Event Loop:** is a programming construct or design pattern that waits for and dispatches events or messages in a program. The event loop works by making a request to some internal or external "event provider" (that generally blocks the request until an event has arrived), then calls the relevant event handler ("dispatches the event").

* **Event Queue:** is a repository where events from an application are held prior to being processed by a receiving program or system. Event queues are often used in the context of an enterprise messaging system.

* **Call Stack:** a mechanism for an interpreter to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions - what function is currently being run and what functions are called from within that function.

* **Emit/Raise/Trigger:**  in event-driven programming, emit sends a message to trigger a response and raise an event

* **Emit:** Emit’s job is to trigger named event(s) which in turn cause functions called listeners to be called.

* **Database:** is an organized collection of data, generally stored and accessed electronically from a computer system. Where databases are more complex they are often developed using formal design and modeling techniques.

## Preparation Materials

* **WebSocket:** is a computer communications protocol, providing full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection. The WebSocket protocol was standardized by the IETF as RFC 6455 in 2011, and the WebSocket API in Web IDL is being standardized by the W3C.

Socket.IO enables real-time bidirectional event-based communication. It works on every platform, browser or device, focusing equally on reliability and speed. Socket.IO is built on top of the WebSockets API (Client side) and Node.js. It is one of the most depended upon library on npm (Node Package Manager).

