## Name 3 real world use cases where you’d want to change the request with custom middleware
* Authentication
* Parameters validation
* Data Management 

## True or false: The route handler is middleware?
* True

## In what ways can a middleware function end the process and send data to the browser?

* res.render()
* res.end()
* res.send()
* res.json() 

## At what point in the request lifecycle can you “inject” middleware?
I can inject middleware at any point 

## What can cause express to error with “Request headers sent twice, cannot start a second response”

when I'm in already in the Body or Finished state, but some function tried to set a header or statusCode.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

**Middleware:**  is a type of computer software that provides services to software applications beyond those available from the operating system

 **Request Object:** allows you to submit a POST or GET request to an URL. Essentially it provides a way to make REST API requests to another URL.

 **Response Object:** Information in the HTTP response from the server to the client.

 **Middleware application:** is a (loosely defined) term for any software or service that enables the parts of a system to communicate and manage data. It is the software that handles communication between components and input/output, so developers can focus on the specific purpose of their application.

 **Routing Middleware:**  functions to run code on each request, or on each request for a certain route, and to take action on request or response data.

**Test-driven development (TDD):** is a software development process relying on software requirements being converted to test cases before software is fully developed, and tracking all software development by repeatedly testing the software against all test cases. This is opposed to software being developed first and test cases created later.

**Behavioral Testing:** Is a testing of the external behaviour of the program, also known as black box testing. It is usually a functional testing.




