# Hashtables

## Terminology

In the case of a hashtable, it is used to determine the index of the array. Buckets - A bucket is what is contained in each index of the array of the hashtable. Each index is a bucket. Collisions - A collision is what happens when more than one key gets hashed to the same location of the hashtable.

## Example

Let’s say we have data of Seattle neighborhood names and their corresponding zip codes. Now, we want to be able to search through the data to look up a neighborhood and obtain it’s zip code. We could do this using a for loop that looks through each piece of data one by one until it finds the neighborhood name, then returns the zip code there. This would be an O read operation because it requires searching through each piece of data to find the one piece we want.

The reason why searching for a piece of data in a collection is O isn’t because the array is slow, it’s just that we have to look through all N things in the collection. Instead of adding elements to an array from beginning to end, a hash map uses a «hash function» to place each item at a precise index location, based off it’s key.

## Hashing

Basically, a hash code turns a key into an integer. Hash codes should never have randomness to them.

Each Index of the array contain «buckets». Each of these «buckets» holds one key/value pair combination. When there is no entry in a specific bucket, the buckets all start null. The hash table starts each bucket empty and overwrites their value once a key generates a hashCode that corresponds with an index.

## Collisions

A collision occurs when more than one key hashes to the same index in an array. As mentioned earlier, a «perfect hash» will never have any collisions. This is called a collision. Collisions are solved by changing the initial state of the buckets.

Each index in the array is called a «bucket» because it can store multiple key/value pairs. Since different keys can lead to the same bucket it’s important to store the entire key/value pair in the bucket, not just the value. If only values were stored in buckets then it would be impossible to determine which value to return when a key led you to a bucket. This is similar to the original neighborhood names stored in an array with their zip codes shown earlier.

Here’s an actual example of just one bucket in a real hash map. In this example the two different keys «Pioneer Square» and «Alki Beach» happen to ultimately resolve to the same bucket. When we look at the bucket we see a representation of the Linked List that exists there. Pioneer Square was added first, so it’s at the front of the list.

Then there’s Alki Beach as the second element in the linked list.

Notice that although «Pioneer Square» and «Alki Beach» have different sum hashes they ultimately resolve to the same bucket index. Their hashes modulo buckets.



Hash Maps can have any number of buckets. If a hash map has only a few buckets it will be densely full and have many collisions. If a hash map has more buckets it will be more sparsely populated, there will be less collisions, but there may be a lot of extra empty space. A hash table can start with only a few buckets, calculate it’s own load factor, recognize when it gets too full and automatically grow and add more buckets to itself to accommodate more data.

The first hash table only has 7 buckets. The second has 100 buckets. Notice that even though the second hash table has 100 buckets there are still some collisions.

Once you determine the index of where it should be placed, go to that index

If something does exist, add the new key/value pair to the data structure within that bucket.

## Basics of Hash Tables
Hashing is a technique that is used to uniquely identify a specific object from a group of similar objects. Some examples of how hashing is used in our lives include:

* In universities, each student is assigned a unique roll number that can be used to retrieve information about them.
* In libraries, each book is assigned a unique number that can be used to determine information about the book, such as its exact position in the library or the users it has been issued to etc.

Assume that you have an object and you want to assign a key to it to make searching easy. To store the key/value pair, you can use a simple array like a data structure where keys can be used directly as an index to store values. Each element is assigned a key . By using that key you can access the element in O time.

### Hash function

A hash function is any function that can be used to map a data set of an arbitrary size to a data set of a fixed size, which falls into the hash table.
