# AWS: Cloud Servers

## Review, Research, and Discussion
 
1. **Describe the Web-Request-Response-Cycle.**

The request/response cycle is a useful guide to see how all the app’s files and folders fit together.

1. **Explain what a “server” is, as it relates to the WRRC**

A HTTP request is a text string generated by the client and sent to the server containing the specifications of the resource the client is asking for. A resource is anything that can accessed via the web. The HTTP request communicates which resource a client wants to interact with and how the client wants to interact with it, along with some metadata held in the header related to the request.

1. **What does it mean to “deploy” an application?**

Uploading your app to a web server to make the user able to use it 

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **Server:** is a piece of computer hardware or software (computer program) that provides functionality for other programs or devices, called "clients".

* **Pub/Sub:** is a form of asynchronous service-to-service communication used in serverless and microservices architectures.

* **WRRC:** The web is a cycle of requests and responses that flow between clients and servers.

## Preparation Materials

* **Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2):** is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment.

**Reliable, scalable, infrastructure on demand** 

1. Increase or decrease capacity within minutes, not hours or days
1. SLA commitment of 99.99% availability for each Amazon EC2 region. Each region consists of at least 3 availability zones
1. The AWS Region/AZ model has been recognized by Gartner as the recommended approach for running enterprise applications that require high availability

**Flexible options to optimize cost**
1. With On Demand, pay for only the compute you need. Gain up to 40% better price performance with AWS Graviton2-based instances or 10% lower costs with AMD-based instances.
1. Amazon EC2 Spot can reduce costs up to 90% or accelerate performance for fault-tolerant workloads such as big data, containers, web services, and CI/CD.
1. AWS Savings Plans offers savings of up to 72% on Amazon EC2 instances usage, regardless of instance family, size, OS, tenancy or AWS Region.