# Props and State

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **Does a deployed React application require a server?**

no it does require.

* **Why do we prefer to test a React application at the behavior rather than the unit level?**


* **What does npm run build do?**

npm run build runs the script "build" and created a script which runs your application - let's say server.js.

* **What does npm run build do?
Describe the actual composition / architecture of a React application**

There is a component hierarchy in a React app. Each component should match one piece of dat ain the application. Data flows down the component hierarchy.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **BDD:** Stands for behavioral driven development. We run tests with React that will work with DOM nodes and find buttons, links, and text to make sure the page is behaving properly.

* **Acceptance Tests:** This is a type of testing that tests an application for acceptability. The goal is to make sure that the application meets all the requirements.

* **mounting:** This means putting elements in the DOM. The built in methods called are constructor(), getDerivedStateFromPro

* **build:** React apps are built. Writing a react app is called building.


## Preparation Materials

### setState explained

**setState():** is the only legitimate way to update state after the initial state setup. Let’s say we have a search component and want to display the search term a user submits.

* Passing a Function to `setState()`

Object.assign() is used to copy data from a source object to a target object. If the data being copied from the source to the target all have same keys, like in our example, the last object wins.

* Access Previous State Using Updater we are not depending on the result of this.state. The states of count are built on each other so we are able to access the correct state which changes with each call to changeCount().

### Handling Events

* **Handling events with React elements is very similar to handling events on DOM elements. There are some syntax differences:**

1. React events are named using camelCase, rather than lowercase.
2. With JSX you pass a function as the event handler, rather than a string.

* Passing Arguments to Event Handlers

Inside a loop, it is common to want to pass an extra parameter to an event handler. For example, if id is the row ID, either of the following would work:

```<button onClick={(e) => this.deleteRow(id, e)}>Delete Row</button>
<button onClick={this.deleteRow.bind(this, id)}>Delete Row</button>
The above two lines are equivalent, and use arrow functions and Function.prototype.bind respectively.
```

In both cases, the e argument representing the React event will be passed as a second argument after the ID. With an arrow function, we have to pass it explicitly, but with bind any further arguments are automatically forwarded.

### Forms

HTML form elements work a bit differently from other DOM elements in React, because form elements naturally keep some internal state. For example, this form in plain HTML accepts a single name:

```
<form>
  <label>
    Name:
    <input type="text" name="name" />
  </label>
  <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
</form>
```
This form has the default HTML form behavior of browsing to a new page when the user submits the form. If you want this behavior in React, it just works. But in most cases, it’s convenient to have a JavaScript function that handles the submission of the form and has access to the data that the user entered into the form. The standard way to achieve this is with a technique called “controlled components”.

* Controlled Components

We can combine the two by making the React state be the “single source of truth”. Then the React component that renders a form also controls what happens in that form on subsequent user input. An input form element whose value is controlled by React in this way is called a “controlled component”.

*  The textarea Tag


In React, a < textarea > uses a value attribute instead. This way, a form using a < textarea > can be written very similarly to a form that uses a single-line input.

