# Custom Hooks 

## Review, Research, and Discussion
* **What does a component's lifecycle refer to?** 

This refers to the time from when a component mounts to when it unmounts. There are methods that you can call associated with this.  

* **Why do you sometimes need to “wrap” functions in `useCallback` when called from within `useEffect`?**

`useCallback` is nice because it fires a memoized version of the callback only if one of it's dependant has changed. This makes it faster and more efficient.  

* **Why are functional components preferred over class components?** 

Functional components are less code, easier to read, perform better, and make it easier to separate components.  

* **What is wrong with the following code?**
```js
import React, {useState, useEffect} from 'react';

function MyComponent(props) {
  const [count, setCount] = useState(0);

  function changeCount(e) {
    setCount(e.target.value);
  }

  let renderedItems = []

  for (let i = 0; i < count; i++) {
    useEffect( () => {
      console.log('component mount/update');
    }, [count]);

    renderedItems.push(<div key={i}>Item</div>);
  }

  return (<div>
     <input type='number' value={count} onChange={changeCount}/>
      {renderedItems}
    </div>);
}
```
`useEffect` should only be used with the count is changed in the code above, so it does not make sense for it to be in a `for` loop. `useEffect` should be outside of the `for` loop in this example.  

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms


* **State Hook:** This is the same as using `this.state` in a class component, but can be used as a hook with a functional component. The state does not have to be an object unlike with class components.

* **effect hook:** This hook tells React that you need to do something after render. Examples of things you could use this for include API calls or data fetching. It will by default run after every render.

* **reducer hook:** This is similar to a state hook, but it returns the state paired with a dispatch method. This is preferable to state when you have complex state logic.
 
## Preparation Materials

### Custom React Hooks

Hooks are just functions! Anything that is a function can become a Hook. I feel that the documentation on the ReactJS docs site is not simple enough. This is no knock on them, I just felt if I could try to explain it in even simpler terms, more people could benefit. So here is my stab at this one!

* Revisiting the Effect Hook

there are two ways of using useEffect. You can use it without cleanup or with cleanup. These are terms I expect anyone at this stage of working with Hooks to either know or to take a few minutes to understand with the links I just provided.

If you do need cleanup to run, you can return a function from useEffect. This is optional and it allows you to run some code after your effect and before any new effect runs. A situation where you subscribe to something may need an unsubscribe as part of the effects cleanup process. React will perform this cleanup on unmount.

* Creating a Custom Hook

Custom Hooks are JavaScript functions whose names are prefixed with the word use. A custom Hook is a normal function but we hold them to a different standard. By adding the word use to the beginning, it lets us know that this function follows the rules of Hooks.

* Managing Control State of a KendoReact Component

Hooks are great for dealing with certain types of application state. A few examples are control state, local component state and session state. I'd like to leverage Hooks when working with our KendoReact UI components, but I want to start simple. We will refactor one of the StackBlitz demos from using classes and instead use a functional component. We will look for instances where the demo is using this.state and this.setState because when we convert the component to functional we will not have to use the this keyword anymore, we will not need to use a constructor or call setState. So let's get into refactoring the KendoReact demo that shows how to work with our KendoReact Dialog. I have forked the original StackBlitz demo from the Dialog Overview page, and that will be our starting point.

* useReducer 

An alternative to useState. Accepts a reducer of type (state, action) => newState, and returns the current state paired with a dispatch method. (If you’re familiar with Redux, you already know how this works.)

useReducer is usually preferable to useState when you have complex state logic that involves multiple sub-values or when the next state depends on the previous one. useReducer also lets you optimize performance for components that trigger deep updates because you can pass dispatch down instead of callbacks.