# React Native
 
 ## Review, Research, and Discussion

 * **Compare and Contrast Redux Toolkit with Redux “Ducks”**

 Ducks seems to be a way to modularize your redux code and make it easier to scale and to understand. Redux toolkit is a way to set up your Redux app with certain functions, and it makes it faster to get your app going quickly.

 * **What is the principle advantage of Redux Toolkit?**

This is the way Redux recommends that you set up a Redux app. It includes a bunch of useful APIs, and it helps simplify Redux code.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **redux toolkit slices:** There is a redux toolkit function called createSlice() that takes in an initial state, an object of reducer functions, and a 'slice name', and it generates action creators and action types corresponding to the reducers and state.

* **namespace:** You can create namespaces for action creators in Redux. This allows multiple instances of components to co-exist with independent space.

## Preparation Materials


### getting started with react native

Welcome to the very start of your React Native journey! If you’re looking for environment setup instructions, they’ve moved to their own section. Continue reading for an introduction to the documentation, Native Components, React, and more!

Many different kinds of people use React Native: from advanced iOS developers to React beginners, to people getting started programming for the first time in their career. These docs were written for all learners, no matter their experience level or background.



* Learn the Basics

React Native is like React, but it uses native components instead of web components as building blocks. So to understand the basic structure of a React Native app, you need to understand some of the basic React concepts, like JSX, components, state, and props. If you already know React, you still need to learn some React-Native-specific stuff, like the native components. This tutorial is aimed at all audiences, whether you have React experience or not.

* What’s going on here?
* First of all, we need to import React to be able to use JSX, which will then be transformed to the native components of each platform.
* On line 2, we import the Text and View components from react-native

### Ejecting to ExpoKit

* **What is this for?**

If you created an Expo project and you want a way to add custom native modules, this guide will explain how to use ExpoKit for that purpose.
Normally, Expo apps are written in pure JS and never "drop down" to the native iOS or Android layer. This is core to the Expo philosophy and it's part of what makes Expo fast and powerful to use.
However, there are some cases where advanced developers need native capabilities outside of what Expo offers out-of-the-box. The most common situation is when a project requires a specific Native Module which is not supported by React Native Core or the Expo SDK.
In this case, Expo allows you to eject your pure-JS project from the Expo iOS/Android clients, providing you with native projects that can be opened and built with Xcode and Android Studio. Those projects will have dependencies on ExpoKit, so everything you already built will keep working as it did before.
We call this "ejecting" because you still depend on the Expo SDK, but your project no longer lives inside Expo Go. You control the native projects, including configuring and building them yourself.

* **Should I eject to ExpoKit?**

You might want to eject if:
Your Expo project needs a native module that Expo doesn't currently support. We're always expanding the Expo SDK, so we hope this is never the case. But it happens, especially if your app has very specific and uncommon native demands.
You should not eject if:
All you need is to distribute your app in the iTunes Store or Google Play. Expo can build binaries for you in that case. If you eject, we can't automatically build for you any more.
You are uncomfortable writing native code. Ejected apps will require you to manage Xcode and Android Studio projects.
You enjoy the painless React Native upgrades that come with Expo. After your app is ejected, breaking changes in React Native will affect your project differently, and you may need to figure them out for your particular situation.
You require Expo's push notification services. After ejecting, since Expo no longer manages your push credentials, you'll need to manage your own push notification pipeline.
You rely on asking for help in the Expo community. In your native Xcode and Android Studio projects, you may encounter questions which are no longer within the realm of Expo.
