## Review, Research, and Discussion

### Write the following steps in the correct order:
 
 1. Write the following steps in the correct order:
1. Register your application to get a client_id and client_secret
1. Ask the client if they want to sign in via a third party
1. Redirect to a third party authentication endpoint
1. Receive authorization code
1. Make a request to a third-party API endpoint
1. Receive access token
1. Make a request to the access token endpoint

### What can you do with an authorization code?

The authorization code is a temporary code that the client will exchange for an access token. 

### What can you do with an access token?

Access tokens are the thing that applications use to make API requests on behalf of a user. The access token represents the authorization of a specific application to access specific parts of a user’s data.

### What’s a benefit of using OAuth instead of your own basic authentication?

It allows limited access to the user’s data and allows accessing when authorization tokens expire. It has ability to share data for users without having to release personal information. It is easier to implement and provides stronger authentication.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **Client ID:** represents a unique browser/device and is created and assigned by Universal Analytics cookie _ga. Client ID is assigned to each unique user of your website.

* **Client Secret:** is a secret used by the OAuth Client to Authenticate to the Authorization Server. The Client Secret is a secret known only to the OAuth Client and the Authorization Server.

* **Endpoint authentication:** is an authentication mechanism used to verify the identity of a network's external or remote connecting device. 

* **Access Token Endpoint:**  are the thing that applications use to make API requests on behalf of a user. ... The token endpoint is where apps make a request to get an access token for a user.

* **API endpoint:** is the point of entry in a communication channel when two systems are interacting.  It refers to touchpoints of the communication between an API and a server.

* **Authorization Code:** is an alphanumeric password that authorizes its user to purchase, sell or transfer items, or to enter information into a security-protected space

* **Access Token:** contains the security credentials for a login session and identifies the user, the user's groups, the user's privileges, and, in some cases, a particular application.


## JWT

* **JWT:** is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object.

### When should you use JSON Web Tokens?

1. Authorization
1. Information Exchange

### What is the JSON Web Token structure? 
* Header
* Payload
* Signature

