# Component Composition

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **Can a parent component access the state of a child component?**
Yes it's possible.
  
* **What can be passed along in a prop variable?**
Props can be numbers, strings, objects, arrays, functions. It seems that you can pass almost anything you need to move data around the app.  

 
* **How can a child component “know” the state of another component?**  
They can trigger callback functions, and the parent component will pass the information as requested. It also seems that Redux helps with this.  

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **component props:** These are passed from the parent component to children components, and they can be any type of data, including functions.

* **component state:** This is the state of a specific component. This will define what all the pieces of data and different parts of the page are at a given moment in time.

*  **application state:** This is the state of the entire application, as different components may or not be in use at different times. 

## Preparation Materials
### react basics recap
#### **The Component Lifecycle**

By far the most important concept on this list is understanding the component lifecycle. But unlike us, the life stages of a component are a little different.

The columns represent different stages in the components life. A component can only be in one stage at a time. The lifecycle methods allow us to run code at specific points in the component’s life or in response to changes in the component’s life. Let’s go through each stage of the component and the associated methods.

#### **Updating**

You can determine if your component should re-render or not by returning true or false. If shouldComponentUpdate returns false, this update cycle ends. This method has limited use as well. Like componentDidMount you can use it to make any async calls or manipulate the DOM.

#### **Other Lifecycle Methods**

In the event of an error in a component, getDerivedStateFromError runs and you can update state to reflect that an error occurred. Use this method copiously.

#### **Higher-Order Components**

You may have used higher-order components, or HOCs, already.

Let’s look at how you might do auth for components without HOCs

Looking at the above code, you can see we are able to keep our regular components very simple and «dumb» while still providing authentication for them. The AuthWrapper component lifts all authentication logic into a unifying component.

#### **React State and setState**

The only way you should change state is via the setState method. This method takes an object and merges it into the current state. First, setState is asynchronous.

#### **setState asynchronous behavior**

Looking at the above image, you can see that we call setState and then console. This brings us to the next piece of knowledge that we should know about setState and that is it can take a callback function.

It works!

We’re actually not using setState correctly in this case. Instead of passing an object to setState, we’re going to give it a function. If you’re not doing that, feel free to keep passing an object to setState. Because setState is asynchronous, relying on it to create our new value will have some pitfalls.

For example, by the time setState runs, another setState could have mutated state. Passing setState a function gives us two benefits. The second is that it will queue the setState calls so they run in order.

##### **React Context**

This brings us now to React context which is just global state for components. The React context API allows you to create global context objects that can be given to any component you make.

The React docs describe setting context in a component like so

What we are doing is wrapping our component with the Context. Consumer component and passing in context as a prop.

Putting everything together

Now our child component has access to global context.




  