# AWS: API, Dynamo and Lambda

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **What are serverless functions?**

A serverless function is a programmatic function written by a software developer for a single purpose. It's then hosted and maintained on infrastructure by cloud computing companies. These companies take care of code maintenance and execution so that developers can deploy new code faster and easier.

* **If you were to create a system that emulated Lambda functions, how would you do it?**
1. Open the Functions page on the Lambda console.
1. Choose Create function.
1. Under Basic information, do the following: For Function name, enter my-function . For Runtime, confirm that Node. js 14. x is selected. Note that Lambda provides runtimes for.
1. Choose Create function.

* **Describe how a CDN works**

a CDN stores a cached version of its content in multiple geographical locations (a.k.a., points of presence, or PoPs). ... In essence, CDN puts your content in many places at once, providing superior coverage to your users.


## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **Serverless Functions:** is a programmatic function written by a software developer for a single purpose. It's then hosted and maintained on infrastructure by cloud computing companies. These companies take care of code maintenance and execution so that developers can deploy new code faster and easier.

* **Cloud Storage:** is a cloud computing model that stores data on the Internet through a cloud computing provider who manages and operates data storage as a service. It's delivered on demand with just-in-time capacity and costs, and eliminates buying and managing your own data storage infrastructure.

* **CDN:** is a highly-distributed platform of servers that helps minimize delays in loading web page content by reducing the physical distance between the server and the user.

## Preparation Materials

### Amazon API Gateway 

* **Amazon API Gateway** is a managed service that allows developers to define the HTTP endpoints of a REST API or a WebSocket API and connect those endpoints with the corresponding backend business logic. It also handles authentication, access control, monitoring, and tracing of API requests.

* **How does API Gateway work?**

API Gateway sits between the backend services of your API and your API’s users, handling the HTTP requests to your API endpoints and routing them to the correct backends. It provides a set of tools that help you manage your API definitions and the mappings between endpoints and their respective backend services. It can also generate API references from your definitions and make them available to your users as API documentation.

* **How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services?**

Many AWS services support integration with Amazon API Gateway, including:

AWS Lambda: run Lambda functions to generate HTTP API responses.
AWS SNS: publish SNS notifications when an HTTP API endpoint is accessed.
Amazon Cognito: provide authentication and authorization for your HTTP APIs.
API Gateway supports direct integrations that can be configured in the API Gateway user interface (or via the API Gateway’s own API) for the following actions:

Invoking an AWS Lambda function.
Invoking another HTTP endpoint, with or without VPC Link.
Making an HTTP call against the API of any AWS service that provides an HTTP API.
Returning a mock response generated within API Gateway without calling out to other services.

* what are the benefits of Amazon API getaway?

1. Efficient API development
1. Performance at any scale
1. Cost savings at scale
1. Easy monitoring
1. Flexible security controls
1. RESTful API options
 

### DynamoDB

* **DynamoDB** is a hosted NoSQL database offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). 

* **what the advantages of DynamoDB?**

1. reliable performance even as it scales;
1. a managed experience, so you won't be SSH-ing into servers to upgrade the crypto libraries;
1. a small, simple API allowing for simple key-value access as well as more advanced query patterns.

* **Amazon DynamoDB** is a key-value and document database that delivers single-digit millisecond performance at any scale. It's a fully managed, multi-region, multi-active, durable database with built-in security, backup and restore, and in-memory caching for internet-scale applications. 

* **what are the benefits for Amazon DynamoDB?**

1. Performance at scale
1. No servers to manage
1. Enterprise ready
1. Serverless Web Apps
1. Mobile Backends
1. Microservices

