# What’s the difference between PUT and PATCH?

### What is PUT?

PUT is a method of modifying resource where the client sends data that updates the entire resource. It is used to set an entity’s information completely. PUT is similar to POST in that it can create resources, but it does so when there is a defined URI. PUT overwrites the entire entity if it already exists, and creates a new resource if it doesn’t exist.

### What is PATCH?

Unlike PUT, PATCH applies a partial update to the resource.


### Differences between PUT and PATCH
The main difference between PUT and PATCH requests is witnessed in the way the server processes the enclosed entity to update the resource identified by the Request-URI. When making a PUT request, the enclosed entity is viewed as the modified version of the resource saved on the original server, and the client is requesting to replace it. However, with PATCH, the enclosed entity boasts a set of instructions that describe how a resource stored on the original server should be partially modified to create a new version.

The second difference is when it comes to idempotency. HTTP PUT is said to be idempotent since it always yields the same results every after making several requests. On the other hand, HTTP PATCH is basically said to be non-idempotent. However, it can be made to be idempotent based on where it is implemented.

# 3 services or tools that allow you to “mock” an API for development

1. [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
1. [Stoplight](https://stoplight.io/)
1. [Mockable.io](https://www.mockable.io/)

# Compare and contrast Swagger and APIDoc.js 1 Which HTTP status codes should be sent with each type of (un)successful API call?

Swagger HTTP Status Codes:

 Status |responses
 -------| ----
'200'|    description: OK
'400'|     description: Bad request. User ID must be an integer and larger than 0. 
 '401' | description: Authorization information is missing or invalid. 
 '404' | description: A user with the specified ID was not found.
'5XX' |description: Unexpected error.
         
### APIDoc.js HTTP Status Codes:

 Status |responses
 -------| ----
'200'|    description: OK
'400'|     description: UserNotFound 
 '401' | description: Not Found 
 '404' | description: Not Found.
'5XX' |description: Unexpected error.

# Compare and contrast SOAP and ReST

* SOAP is a protocol whereas REST is an architectural style. An API is designed to expose certain aspects of an application’s business logic on a server, and SOAP uses a service interface to do this while REST uses URIs.
* REST APIs access a resource for data (a URI); SOAP APIs perform an operation. REST is an architecture that’s more data-driven, while SOAP is a standardized protocol for transferring structured information that’s more function-driven.
* REST permits many different data formats including plain text, HTML, XML, and JSON, which is a great fit for data and yields more browser compatibility; SOAP only uses XML.
* Security is handled differently. SOAP supports WS-Security, which is great at the transport level and a bit more comprehensive than SSL, and more ideal for integration with enterprise-level security tools. Both support SSL for end-to-end security, and REST can use the secure version of the HTTP protocol, HTTPS.
* SOAP requires more bandwidth, whereas REST requires fewer resources (depending on the API). There’s a little more overhead with SOAP out of the gate, on account of the envelope-style of payload transport. Because REST is used primarily for web services, its being lightweight is an advantage in those scenarios.
* REST calls can be cached, while SOAP-based calls cannot be cached. Data can be marked as cacheable, which means it can be reused by the browser later without having to initiate another request back to the server. This saves time and resources.
* An API is built to handle your app’s payload, and REST and SOAP do this differently. A payload is data sent over the internet, and when a payload is “heavy,” it requires more resources. REST tends to use HTTP and JSON, which lighten the payload; SOAP relies more on XML.
SOAP is tightly coupled with the server; REST is coupled to a lesser degree. In programming, the more layers of abstraction between two pieces of technology, the less control you have over their interaction, but there’s also less complexity and it’s easier to make updates to one or the other without blowing up the whole relationship. The same goes for APIs and how closely they interact with a server. This is a key difference between SOAP and REST to consider. SOAP is very closely coupled with the server, having a strict communication contract with it that makes it more difficult to make changes or updates. A client interacting with a REST API needs no knowledge of the API, but a client interacting with a SOAP API needs knowledge about everything it will be using before it can even initiate an interaction.

* ## Web Server:
A web server is a computer that runs websites. It's a computer program that distributes web pages as they are requisitioned. The basic objective of the web server is to store, process and deliver web pages to the users. This intercommunication is done using Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). These web pages are mostly static content that includes HTML documents, images, style sheets, test etc. Apart from HTTP, a web server also supports SMTP (Simple Mail transfer Protocol) and FTP (File Transfer Protocol) protocol for emailing and for file transfer and storage.

* ## Express: 
is the most popular Node web framework, and is the underlying library for a number of other popular Node web frameworks.

* ## Rounting: 
 is the process of selecting a path for traffic in a network or between or across multiple networks. ... Packet forwarding is the transit of network packets from one network interface to another. Intermediate nodes are typically network hardware devices such as routers, gateways, firewalls, or switches.


# Node introduction

* **Node:** is an open-source, cross-platform runtime environment that allows developers to create all kinds of server-side tools and applications in JavaScript

What are Node benefits:

1. Great performance! Node was designed to optimize throughput and scalability in web applications and is a good solution for many common web-development problems (e.g. real-time web applications).
1. Code is written in "plain old JavaScript", which means that less time is spent dealing with "context shift" between languages when you're writing both client-side and server-side code.
1. JavaScript is a relatively new programming language and benefits from improvements in language design when compared to other traditional web-server languages (e.g. Python, PHP, etc.) Many other new and popular languages compile/convert into JavaScript so you can also use TypeScript, CoffeeScript, ClojureScript, Scala, LiveScript, etc.
1. The node package manager (NPM) provides access to hundreds of thousands of reusable packages. It also has best-in-class dependency resolution and can also be used to automate most of the build toolchain.
1. Node.js is portable. It is available on Microsoft Windows, macOS, Linux, Solaris, FreeBSD, OpenBSD, WebOS, and NonStop OS. Furthermore, it is well-supported by many web hosting providers, that often provide specific infrastructure and documentation for hosting Node sites.
1. It has a very active third party ecosystem and developer community, with lots of people who are willing to help.

# Introducing Express

* **Express:** is the most popular Node web framework, and is the underlying library for a number of other popular Node web frameworks.

Express provides the below mechanisms :

1. Write handlers for requests with different HTTP verbs at different URL paths (routes).
1. Integrate with "view" rendering engines in order to generate responses by inserting data into templates.
1. Set common web application settings like the port to use for connecting, and the location of templates that are used for rendering the response.
1. Add additional request processing "middleware" at any point within the request handling pipeline.

# NPM

* **npm:** is the world's largest software registry. Open source developers from every continent use npm to share and borrow packages, and many organizations use npm to manage private development as well.

* npm consists of three distinct components:

1. the website
1. the Command Line Interface (CLI)
1. the registry

### We can use npm to:


1. Adapt packages of code for your apps, or incorporate packages as they are.
1. Download standalone tools you can use right away.
1. Run packages without downloading using npx.
1. Share code with any npm user, anywhere.
1. Restrict code to specific developers.
1. Create organizations to coordinate package maintenance, coding, and developers.
1. Form virtual teams by using organizations.
1. Manage multiple versions of code and code dependencies.
1. Update applications easily when underlying code is updated.
1. Discover multiple ways to solve the same puzzle.
1. Find other developers who are working on similar problems and projects.

# TDD

* **“Test-driven development”:** refers to a style of programming in which three activities are tightly interwoven: coding, testing (in the form of writing unit tests) and design (in the form of refactoring).

### Expected Benefits

1. many teams report significant reductions in defect rates, at the cost of a moderate increase in initial development effort
1. the same teams tend to report that these overheads are more than offset by a reduction in effort in projects’ final phases
1. although empirical research has so far failed to confirm this, veteran practitioners report that TDD leads to improved design qualities in the code, and more generally a higher degree of “internal” or technical quality, for instance improving the metrics of cohesion and coupling
