# Event Driven Architecture

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1.  **What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?**

FIFO queues have essentially the same features as standard queues, but provide the added benefits of supporting ordering and exactly-once processing. FIFO queues provide additional features that help prevent unintentional duplicates from being sent by message producers or from being received by message consumers.


1.  **How can the server be assured a message was properly received?**

By using the message Queue to save the message until the user is connected and get the message

1. **What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?**

 there is generally a main loop that listens for events and then triggers a callback function when one of those events is detected. In embedded systems, the same may be achieved using hardware interrupts instead of a constantly running main loop. Event-driven programs can be written in any programming language, although the task is easier in languages that provide high-level abstractions, such as await and closures.

1. **How do you test an event driven system?**

write unit tests, service tests, and end-to-end tests. In each of these cases, your System Under Test (SUT, what is actually being tested) comprises a different part of your application.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **FIFO Queue:** is a method for organising the manipulation of a data structure (often, specifically a data buffer) where the oldest (first) entry, or "head" of the queue, is processed first.

* **Pub/Sub:**  is an asynchronous messaging service that decouples services that produce events from services that process events.

## Preparation Materials

**SQS** is mainly used to decouple applications or integrate applications. Messages can be stored in SQS for short duration of time (max 14 days). **SNS** distributes several copies of message to several subscribers. For example, lets say you want to replicate data generated by an application to several storage systems.



