# Review, Research, and Discussion

## Why is access control important?

it mitigates the risk of information being accessed without the appropriate authorisation.

## Describe an application that would need access control.
 Government application or website that contain a sensetive data for the users.

 ## What is a role used for?

 To give the person a specific authorization we should know his role.

 ## Why is role based access control more scalable than discretionary or mandatory access control?

 because it can be changed and controlled depends on the need.

 # Document the following Vocabulary Terms

 * **Authorization:** is a security mechanism to determine access levels or user/client privileges related to system resources including files, services, computer programs, data and application features. This is the process of granting or denying access to a network resource which allows the user access to various resources based on the user's identity.

  * **Role-based access control:** is an approach to restricting system access to authorized users. It is used by the majority of enterprises with more than 500 employees, and can implement mandatory access control (MAC) or discretionary access control (DAC).

  * **Capabilities:** are communicable, unforgeable token of authority. It refers to a value that references an object along with an associated set of access rights.

  # Preparation Materials

  #### **Event-Driven Programming** is a logical pattern that we can choose to confine our programming within to avoid issues of complexity and collision.

 ### Event-Driven Programming makes use of the following concepts:

* An Event Handler is a callback function that will be called when an event is triggered.
* A Main Loop listens for event triggers and calls the associated event handler for that event.

### EventEmitter

Node.js natively provides us with a useful module called EventEmitter that allows us to get started incorporating Event-Driven Programming in our project right away.

### Removing Listeners

There will likely come a time when you want to remove an event listener from an event. This could be for performance reasons (the event is no longer needed) or to avoid memory leaks (if an event listener references an object that is no longer needed, it won’t be able to be garbage-collected. This can lead to a build up of unnecessary objects).

 ### Object Oriented Programming + Event-Driven Programming

 The last thing I want to touch on here is the combination of the Object Oriented and Event-driven programming paradigms. These two make for a very valuable combination in a wide variety of situations and I think it can be beneficial to understand and conceptualize why.




