# `<Login />` and `<Auth />`

## Review, Research, and Discussion


* **Why is the Context API useful?**

The Context API is useful because it can change important values for many components at once from a centralized location, without all of the values having to be passed through many layers of props.

* **Can a component outside of a provider get its context?**

It needs to be in a provider, or in a component whose parent is wrapped in the provider.

* **What are some common use cases for using the Context API?**

It can be used to show who is logged in and what authorizations they have.

* **Describe “Context Hell”**

Without useContext, you many have to pass props through many layers of components to get info to the right place. This can be frustrating and can lead to easy to miss mistakes.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **global state:**	This is the state of the entire React application.

* **global context:** This is context that affects the entire application, and it will share data to everything in the React component tree.

* **provider:**	The context provider accepts a value that will be passed to its children. All children components will re-render when the value changes.

* **consumer:** This is a React component that subscribes to context changes in value of the Provider.

## Preparation Materials

* ### **ROLE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL**

* **Role-based access control (RBAC):** restricts network access based on a person's role within an organization and has become one of the main methods for advanced access control. 

* Some of the designations in an RBAC tool can include:

 1. Management role scope – it limits what objects the role group is allowed to manage.
1.  Management role group – you can add and remove members.
1. Management role – these are the types of tasks that can be performed by a specific role group.
1. Management role assignment – this links a role to a role group.

* **BENEFITS OF RBAC**

1. Reducing administrative work and IT support. 
1.  Maximizing operational efficiency.
1. Improving compliance. 

* **BEST PRACTICES FOR IMPLEMENTING RBAC**

1. Current Status
1. Current Roles
1. Write a Policy
1. Make Changes
1. Continually Adapt







