# Review, Research, and Discussion

## Explain what a “Singleton” is (in Computer Science terms)

Singleton: is a software design pattern that restricts the instantiation of a class to one "single" instance.


## Explain how the Singleton pattern can be used with Node modules, specifically with classes

we can do for a classical singleton is actually return that instance using a get instance method. And what we can do within this method is return our singleton instance. There we go. So this class only allows us to instantiate one logger and then using the get instance method we can return that logger to any file that wants to use it.

## If you were tasked with building a middleware system like Express uses, what approach might you take to construct/operate it?

Create a middleware then export to require it in the needed file or make it required for the all files 

# Document the following Vocabulary Terms

**Router Middleware:** It is a piece of code that comes in the middle of request and response . 

**Dynamic Module Loading:** is a mechanism by which a computer program can, at run time, load a library (or other binary) into memory, retrieve the addresses of functions and variables contained in the library, execute those functions or access those variables, and unload the library from memory.

  **singleton pattern:** is a software design pattern that restricts the instantiation of a class to one "single" instance. This is useful when exactly one object is needed to coordinate actions across the system. The term comes from the mathematical concept of a singleton.

  **CRUD -> REST Method Matches definition:** In computer programming, create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) are the four basic operations of persistent storage. Alternate words are sometimes used when defining the four basic operations of CRUD, such as construct instead of create, retrieve instead of read, or destroy or destruct instead of delete. CRUD is also sometimes used to describe user interface conventions that facilitate viewing, searching, and changing information, often using computer-based forms and reports. The term was likely first popularized by James Martin in his 1983 book Managing the Data-base environment. The acronym may be extended to CRUDL to cover listing of large data sets which bring additional complexity such as pagination when the data sets are too large to be easily held in memory

  **Mock Testing:** is an approach to unit testing that lets you make assertions about how the code under test is interacting with other system modules. In mock testing, the dependencies are replaced with objects that simulate the behaviour of the real ones. The purpose of mocking is to isolate and focus on the code being tested and not on the behaviour or state of external dependencies.

  ## Securing Passwords

  Passwords are the first line of defense against cyber criminals. It is the most vital secret of every activity we do over the internet and also a final check to get into any of your user account, whether it is your bank account, email account, shopping cart account or any other account you have.

  ### PROBLEMS WITH CRYPTOGRAPHIC HASH ALGORITHM

  * **Brute Force attack**: Hashes can't be reversed, so instead of reversing the hash of the password, an attacker can simply keep trying different inputs until he does not find the right now that generates the same hash value, called brute force attack.

  * **Hash Collision attack:** Hash functions have infinite input length and a predefined output length, so there is inevitably going to be the possibility of two different inputs that produce the same output hash. MD5, SHA1, SHA2 are vulnerable to Hash Collision Attack i.e. two input strings of a hash function that produce the same hash result.

  ## Basic Auth

  * **basic access authentication** is a method for an HTTP user agent (e.g. a web browser) to provide a user name and password when making a request.

* **HTTP Basic authentication (BA) implementation** is the simplest technique for enforcing access controls to web resources because it does not require cookies, session identifiers, or login pages; rather, HTTP Basic authentication uses standard fields in the HTTP header.

### Server side
When the server wants the user agent to authenticate itself towards the server, the server must respond appropriately to unauthenticated requests.

### Client side
When the user agent wants to send authentication credentials to the server, it may use the Authorization header field.

## Authentication Cheat Sheet

**Authentication** is the process of verifying that an individual, entity or website is whom it claims to be. Authentication in the context of web applications is commonly performed by submitting a username or ID and one or more items of private information that only a given user should know.

**Session Management** is a process by which a server maintains the state of an entity interacting with it. This is required for a server to remember how to react to subsequent requests throughout a transaction. Sessions are maintained on the server by a session identifier which can be passed back and forward between the client and server when transmitting and receiving requests. Sessions should be unique per user and computationally very difficult to predict. The Session Management Cheat Sheet contains further guidance on the best practices in this area.
 
**Compare Password Hashes Using Safe Functions**

Where possible, the user-supplied password should be compared to the stored password hash using a secure password comparison function provided by the language or framework, such as the password_verify() function in PHP. Where this is not possible, ensure that the comparison function:

Has a maximum input length, to protect against denial of service attacks with very long inputs.
Explicitly sets the type of both variable, to protect against type confusion attacks such as Magic Hashes in PHP.
Returns in constant time, to protect against timing attacks.

### Authentication Responses
Using any of the authentication mechanisms (login, password reset or password recovery), an application must respond with a generic error message regardless of whether:

* The user ID or password was incorrect.
* The account does not exist.
* The account is locked or disabled.

## bcrypt docs

### **bcryptA** library to help you hash passwords.

