# Redux - Combined Reducers

## Review, Research, and Discussion


* **Why choose Redux instead of the Context API for global state?**

Redux is the industry standard for managing state of large applications, so it is important to know well. It is more optimized for larger projects, because the context API re-renders more often.

* **What is the purpose of a reducer?**

We need reducers to tell the application how to change state in response to an action. The action does not do anything except describe what happened and it is up to the reducer to respond to this.

* **What does an action contain?**

An action contains a type and whatever payload you want it to have. There is flexibility in what there is besides the type.

* **Why do we need to copy the state in a reducer?**

The reducer needs to be a pure function without any side-effects. It should only take in an action and return the new state, but it should not mutate the state, so we need to copy it to update it.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **immutable state:** This allows the state to only change when absolutely necessary to make React apps perform as well as possible.

* **time travel in redux:** This is a feature of redux dev tools that allows you to see every state that a page has been in.

* **action creator:**	Actions send data from your application to your store, and are the only source of information for the store. An action creator is a function that creates an action.

* **reducer:** Reducers tell the application how to change state in response to an action.
* **dispatch:** This is the name of the function you use to send actions to the store.

## Preparation Materials

### *Using combineReducers*

* **Core Concepts:**

The most common state shape for a Redux app is a plain Javascript object containing "slices" of domain-specific data at each top-level key. Similarly, the most common approach to writing reducer logic for that state shape is to have "slice reducer" functions, each with the same (state, action) signature, and each responsible for managing all updates to that specific slice of state. Multiple slice reducers can respond to the same action, independently update their own slice as needed, and the updated slices are combined into the new state object.

Because this pattern is so common, Redux provides the combineReducers utility to implement that behavior. It is an example of a higher-order reducer, which takes an object full of slice reducer functions, and returns a new reducer function.


* **Defining State Shape**

There are two ways to define the initial shape and contents of your store's state. First, the createStore function can take preloadedState as its second argument. This is primarily intended for initializing the store with state that was previously persisted elsewhere, such as the browser's localStorage. The other way is for the root reducer to return the initial state value when the state argument is undefined. These two approaches are described in more detail in Initializing State, but there are some additional concerns to be aware of when using combineReducers.

combineReducers takes an object full of slice reducer functions, and creates a function that outputs a corresponding state object with the same keys. This means that if no preloaded state is provided to createStore, the naming of the keys in the input slice reducer object will define the naming of the keys in the output state object. The correlation between these names is not always apparent, especially when using ES6 features such as default module exports and object literal shorthands.