# Routing

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **Do child components have direct access to props/state from the parent?** 

The parent can pass its state though props to the children, and can pass other children through props.children. 

* **When a component “wraps” another component, how does the child component’s output get rendered?**

```html
<Main>
  <Content />
</Main>
```
With something like this, the Content component will be passed to the Main component as child.props, so it can used in the Main component.  

* **Can a component, such as `<Content />`, which is a child also be used as a standalone component elsewhere in the application?**

It seems that is would be possible for a child component to also be used as a standalone component.  
* **What trick can a parent use to share all props with it’s children?**

You can do this with a spread operator. Put this in the parent component to pass all the props to a child component `<Child {...props}>`  

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **props.children:** This allows you to pass components as props and to use them in other components.

* **composition:** This is where a specific component renders a more generic one and configures it with props. This is useful because sometimes you don't know what the children will be ahead of time.

## Preparation Materials

### react-if component

* With React-If you can rewrite your code into a more readable, expressive format.


Can contain any number of elements inside, which it renders as-is. It will only be displayed, if parent If block's condition is true. It will only be displayed, if parent If block's condition is false.

If the Case is the first one to have its condition evaluates to true inside the parent it will be the only rendered. If no Case have its condition evaluates to true inside the parent , the first Default will be the only one rendered. A shorthand for The same rules apply to the child elements as with using the Then block. A shorthand for The same rules apply to the child elements as with using the Else block.