# Redux - Asynchronous Actions

## Review, Research, and Discussion

* **How granular should your reducers be?**

There should be a separate reducer function for each slice of data. They are combined before being put into the store.

* **Pro or Con – multiple reducers can “fire” when a commonly named action is dispatched**

This is a Con because you may fire off reducers that you did not intend.

* **Name a strategy for preventing the above**

You can use more specific names to make sure that the right action fires the right reducer at the correct time.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **store:** This holds the state of the application. This can only be changed when actions are dispatched to the store.
* **combined reducers:** This takes all the reducer functions from an app and combines them to pass to createStore.

## Preparation Materials

### Async Logic and Data Fetching

* ***Redux Middleware and Side Effects***

Earlier, we said that Redux reducers must never contain "side effects". A "side effect" is any change to state or behavior that can be seen outside of returning a value from a function. Some common kinds of side effects are things like:

1. Logging a value to the console
1. Saving a file
1. Setting an async timer
1. Making an AJAX HTTP request
1. Modifying some state that exists outside of a function, or mutating arguments to a function
1. Generating random numbers or unique random IDs (such as Math.random() or Date.now())


* ***Writing an Async Function Middleware***

Both of the middleware in that last section were very specific and only do one thing. It would be nice if we had a way to write any async logic ahead of time, separate from the middleware itself, and still have access to dispatch and getState so that we can interact with the store.

What if we wrote a middleware that let us pass a function to dispatch, instead of an action object? We could have our middleware check to see if the "action" is actually a function instead, and if it's a function, call the function right away. That would let us write async logic in separate functions, outside of the middleware definition.

* ***Redux Async Data Flow***

So how do middleware and async logic affect the overall data flow of a Redux app?

Just like with a normal action, we first need to handle a user event in the application, such as a click on a button. Then, we call dispatch(), and pass in something, whether it be a plain action object, a function, or some other value that a middleware can look for.

Once that dispatched value reaches a middleware, it can make an async call, and then dispatch a real action object when the async call completes.

* ***Using the Redux Thunk Middleware***

As it turns out, Redux already has an official version of that "async function middleware", called the Redux "Thunk" middleware. The thunk middleware allows us to write functions that get dispatch and getState as arguments. The thunk functions can have any async logic we want inside, and that logic can dispatch actions and read the store state as needed.