# AWS: S3 and Lambda

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. **Describe “The Cloud”**

"The cloud" refers to servers that are accessed over the Internet, and the software and databases that run on those servers. 

1. **What is a container (as it relates to computers and servers)?**

A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. 

1. **What is auto-scaling?**

Auto Scaling lets you build scaling plans that automate how groups of different resources respond to changes in demand.

1. **What is bandwidth?**

The maximum amount of data transmitted over an internet connection in a given amount of time.

1. **How do cloud providers compute service costs?**

When setting price, cloud providers determine the expense to maintaining the network. They start by calculating costs for network hardware, network infrastructure maintenance, and labor. These expenses are added together and then divided by the number of rack units a business will need for its IaaS cloud.

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* **Server Instances:** is a collection of SQL Server databases which are run by a solitary SQL Server service or instance. The details of each server instance can be viewed on the service console which can be web-based or command-line based.

* **Containers:** is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. 

* **Cloud Services:** a wide range of services delivered on demand to companies and customers over the internet. 

* **Cloud Architecture:** the various components in terms of databases, software capabilities, applications, etc. engineered to leverage the power of cloud resources to solve business problems. Cloud architecture defines the components as well as the relationships between them.

* **AWS:** is a subsidiary of Amazon providing on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to individuals, companies, and governments, on a metered pay-as-you-go basis.

* **EC2/Beanstalk vs Heroku:** Elastic Beanstalk is one layer of abstraction away from the EC2 layer. Elastic Beanstalk will setup an "environment" for you that can contain a number of EC2 instances, an optional database, as well as a few other AWS components such as a Elastic Load Balancer, Auto-Scaling Group, Security Group.

## Preparation Materials

### AWS S3

* **Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3):** is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. 

### AWS Lambda

* **AWS Lambda** is a serverless computing service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS).

* **How does AWS Lambda work?**

Each Lambda function runs in its own container. When a function is created, Lambda packages it into a new container and then executes that container on a multi-tenant cluster of machines managed by AWS. Before the functions start running, each function’s container is allocated its necessary RAM and CPU capacity. Once the functions finish running, the RAM allocated at the beginning is multiplied by the amount of time the function spent running. The customers then get charged based on the allocated memory and the amount of run time the function took to complete.

#### **When building Serverless applications, AWS Lambda is one of the main candidates for running the application code. Typically, to complete a Serverless stack you’ll need:**

* a computing service.
* a database service. and
* an HTTP gateway service.

#### **What are the most common use cases for AWS Lambda?**

1. individual tasks run for a short time.
1. each task is generally self-contained.
1. there is a large difference between the lowest and highest levels in the workload of the application.

* **Use cases**

1. Real-time file processing
1. Real-time stream processing
1. Machine learning
1. Backends
1. Web applications
1. Mobile backends


### Content Delivery Network (CDN)

* **Content Delivery Network (CDN):** is a geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the fast transfer of data needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.

#### CDNs work through servers nearest to the website visitor respond to the request. 

* **What does this mean for an SMB?**
CDNs are something that larger companies are more likely to implement. The main reasons why company want to use CDNs are to improve Internet website load speeds, content delivery speeds, and to reduce the likelihood of falling victim to and improve defenses against Distributed Denial of Service attacks (DDoS).
 





